# AquaFlora_smartTerrarium
AquaFlora Smart Terrarium is a state-of-the-art system that includes sensors, actuators, and electronic components designed to keep the optimal states for different organisms due to being controlled by an ESP32 microcontroller. For actuation, the system relies on four actuators for illumination, humidity fire, irrigation, and cooling fan, with four sensors – Capacitive Soil Moisture Sensor, DHT22 for temperature and humidity, and BH1750FVI Light Intensity Sensor. In terms of control, the terrarium can be controlled with a mobile app and Node-RED, which helps with the real-time monitoring, control, and automation through Firebase and MQTT. The system configuration is highly advantageous since it is flexible and specially designed to both manual and automatic terrarium operation, either making it efficient or not.
The trial to evaluate the potential of the AquaFlora Smart Terrarium to keep the plants healthy without additional irrigation over ten days has indicated the benefits of the device’s water-retention. The trial in which the greenery color intensity of the plant’s leaves was measures has shown that it was the higher in the plantlet kept in the terrarium, proving that the provided layered built, which is composed of water retaining lava rocks, is efficient. The sensor data was visualized on the Node-RED platform over the 10 hours of the plants’ preservation in the device. The automatic mode provided positive outcomes since it has controlled the soil moisture, keeping it above 68%, temperature between 30.1 and 33.1 degree Celsius (°C), humidity between 69.10% and 74.00%, and light intensity of 23 Lux to 175 Lux, which proves how innovative and reliable the AquaFlora Smart Terrarium is in creating the environment in which the plants are stable.
